# StartingXI
Starting XI is a WIP compile-time ECS-based game engine that is supposed to be more a learning device. While Unity, Unreal Engine, Godot etc. are amazing tools to make games with, I noticed that using them didn't scratch a certain itch I was feeling. I found myself much more interested in how Unity's pathfinding and navmesh systems were written than in how to make the next RTS blockbuster.

### High-level Goals
- __Learning__. I know I can't single-handledly create something more performant than what's already on the market and certainly don't expect anyone to actually _use_ my libraries, but maybe pretending as if I have stakeholders and users might push me towards making more realistic decisions and at least to converting some unknown-unknowns into known-unknowns.
- __Modularity__. I want a hypothetical user to be able to select and build only what they need for a specific project. Not every project needs fancy pathfinding or vulkan rendering so they shouldn't be tightly coupled into one single massive library. Even though they are not separate repositories at the moment, I am working on them as if they were, trying to isolate behaviour and data as much as possible.
- __Systems__. I want to guide the user into thinking of entities as compositions of small blocks of data rather than independent units of behaviour. Systems should act upon that data to leverage the cache and simplify the design of a game's mechanics. Therefore, it should be dead-simple to define and work with systems and signatures.
- __Jobs__. I envision an ECS where the user defines data and behaviours and can simply choose to multithread them or not with a single method call. I would need some sort of a thread pool, a job scheduler, and some way to chunk component data to optimally leverage multiple threads of logic.
- __Showcase__. I would like to reach a stable enough point in the future and to also visually showcase my progress, either through devlogs or through making small games which show off certain parts of the engine. For now, this README and repo are all I have.

### Current Projects
- __SXICore__: Very common operations like file loading and time data, but also defines a small metaprogramming library and the foundations for the compile-time ECS. In the future, will contain the thread pool and job scheduler. This project should be included by every application.
- __SXIMath__: A bit of a wrapper over glm, but also contains some extra helper-functions and classes like axis-aligned bounding boxes and rays. As the ecosystem grows, so will this project with more geometric/mathematical concepts.
- __SXIPathfinding__: Implements the PolyAnya any-angle pathfinding algorithm over a navmesh created by constructing a constrained delaunay triangulation over sets of points organised by shapes stored in an R* tree. Users simply add or remove shapes from a map and the navmesh gets automatically updated. To optimise PolyAnya, redundant edges of the navmesh edges are "pruned" greedily leaving only convex shapes.
- __SXIRenderer__: A very simple 3D graphics renderer written using vulkan. I want to add much more functionality here including some sort of shader reflection to allow the use of custom shaders.
- __MysteriousGame__: This is not part of the SXI ecosystem, this is just a simple stand-in for an application and sort of a playground/sandbox for me to test things.
